Enter jQuery UI
As fun as building beautiful websites from scratch is, there are certain things that you are better off leaving to those who have perfected the craft. Why spend all day driving yourself crazy trying to make your own nested tabs when jQueryUI can make them for you in mere seconds? jQueryUI is a powerful library of user interface elements that can make your website extremely interactive and beautiful with a few short lines of code. In this section, you will see just how easy it is to implement this powerful tool into your arsenal!

Setting it up!

*Note - jQueryUI has changed their website and is no longer offering links to the CDN link as shown in the video; you still add the files in the same manner.

jQueryUI works much like vanilla jQuery. You reference the correct sources and write code that will interact with your HTML elements. Much of this website was built using jQueryUI! Once you start using jQueryUI and become familiar with it, you will notice it everywhere! This is an extremely popular library, so knowing how to use it will make you a better developer! 

Now, to set up jQueryUI, go to https://developers.google.com/speed/libraries/ and click on jQuery from the available list and add this; then click on jQueryUI and add both the CSS file and the JavaScript file - the JavaScript file from jQueryUI must go below the first file we added. Once that is complete, it's time to go to work!

Workflow
JQueryUI is very easy to use! Like anything related to programming, the only way to learn jQueryUI is by using it! Utilize the documentation on the jQueryUI website to get examples up and working and then start to tinker. As much as copy/paste is frowned upon in other portions of our curriculum, this is an exception to the rule as sometimes jQueryUI elements require very specific syntax to function correctly. When you are building your own projects, take the time to shop around on the jQueryUI website to see if there are pre-made elements you can use before you start coding. Perhaps something you are intending to build from scratch can be accomplished with 3 lines of jQueryUI code. Keep in mind, jQuery UI is a library and should be used to supplement your code, not replace it!